Meta-documentation 2026 (#155)
pretix/pretix-docs: docs/guides/meta/language.md

# Language

This article explains what kind of language, writing style, orthography, grammar, and terminology to use when contributing to the pretix documentation.
This article focuses on the English-language parts of the pretix documentation.

## Prerequisites

> There are no strict prerequisites for using appropriate language while writing pretix documentation.

Reviewer: > There are no strict prerequisites for using appropriate language while writing pretix documentation.

Sowohl "appropriate" als auch "proper" sind einerseits für diesen Kontext nicht klar definiert und haben andererseits Konnotationen, was Vokabular und Ausdruck angeht. Dadurch erklärt diese Aussage nicht besonders viel.

A solid grasp of the English language is helpful.

## How to

Using proper language is not a linear process.
Rather, it requires attention to many factors at the same time.
Thus, unlike most other guides, this article will not give you step-by-step instructions.
Instead, it will introduce and explain the factors that are relevant for proper language within the context of the pretix documentation:

 - [terminology](#terminology)
 - [orthography](#orthography)
 - [punctuation](#punctuation)

This article will cover these factors in detail.
Some of them are complex enough to include several subsections.

### Terminology

The pretix documentation benefits from consistent and clear terminology.
There should be a one-to-one correspondence between words and concepts.

Always communicate a concept with the same word.
For instance, if you want to instruct the user to click a button in the pretix backend, use the word "click".
Do **not** use "click on", "tap", "hit", "use", "interact with", or any other terminology.

> Always use a word for the same concept.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Always use one term for the same concept.
```

For instance, do **not** use the word "category" to refer to product categories, seat categories, and GetYourGuide categories.
Specify which type of category you are writing about, even if it should be clear from context.

There is a [terminology database](https://www.terminologue.org/pretix-docs/) for the pretix documentation.

> Use this database to look up preferred terminology and to record new decisions regarding terminology.

Reviewer: > Use this database to look up preferred terminology and to record new decisions regarding terminology.

Ist das technisch wirklich möglich? Müssen wir uns ggf. über das Zielpublikum unterhalten?

If you want to make a new addition or correction to the terminology database, speak to the team.

### Orthography

There are three sources for proper orthography within the context of the pretix documentation:

 1. Our internal [terminology database](https://www.terminologue.org/pretix-docs/)
 2. [Merriam-Webster](https://www.merriam-webster.com/)
 3. [Wiktionary](https://en.wiktionary.org/)

Use the spellings marked as "preferred" in our terminology database.
Do not use the variants marked as "rejected".
If our terminology database does not have an entry on a word, consult Merriam-Webster.

> Ignore spellings marked as "variant".

Reviewer: > Ignore spellings marked as "variant".

... unless that spelling happens to be "theatre" ...

If neither our terminology database nor Merriam-Webster have an entry on a word, use Wiktionary.

> If you or the team have not yet made a decision which spelling option to use, pick on variant and stick with it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you or the team have not yet made a decision which spelling option to use, pick one variant and stick with it.
```

Inwieweit "you or the team" hier Sinn ergibt, musst du mir mit Blick auf das Zielpublikum erklären, befürchte ich.

Do **not** separate it with a space.

```
€1,899.99
```

For percentages, place the percentage symbol at the end.
Do **not** use a space between the number and the symbol.

```
19%
```

#### Quotation marks

For quotation marks, use `"` (U+0022 QUOTATION MARK).
When copying text from Confluence, word editors, or other websites, check if your text still contains the correct quotation marks.
These other softwares will sometimes replace the quotation mark above with a different symbol such as `”`.
Do **not** use this symbol anywhere in our documentation.
It only occurs here as a deterrent example.

#### Hyphens and dashes

The pretix documentation uses a few different dash symbols.
The hyphen and minus are the same symbol: `-` (U+002D HYPHEN-MINUS).
Use the hyphen-minus for compound words as suggested by our sources on [orthography](#orthography).

The en-dash is a separate symbol: `–` ( U+2013 EN DASH).
Use the en-dash for relationships and connections:

```
Merriam–Webster
```

You may use the en-dash for ranges of values in tables and formulas:

```
| Animal | Amount |
|------------|-------|
| Feral hogs | 30–50 |
```

> In the text, use the word "to" for ranges of values instead:

Reviewer: >  In the text, use the word "to" for ranges of values instead:

... your example proceeds to **not** use "to":
> 30–50 feral hogs
